The Joe Rogan experience. I'll tell you a story about, about, uh,
about a terrible person. Um, there's, there's.
Queue up some spooky music. Yeah. Right?
So this there's this guy. I hope I like don't get sued by this guy.
You don't have, don't say his name. Yeah.
Well, I'm going to, I've got to say the place that he runs, um,
this is a guy who tells people that he can cure their cancer. Uh,
yeah. Uh, you know, cure their cancer naturally. Right. He's got the whole,
you know, he gives him, he gives him a wheat, you know, gives them wheat,
grass smoothies. Right.
And he tells them that if they just think positively and, and they, you know,
the, that big pharma is, is corrupt and chemotherapy is a sham.
And if they just come to his place, which I went to in, in Florida,
um, he's you go to interview him? Or I did, I did.
I went to interview him because, and he looks like, I mean,
he just looks like he he's like a caricature of a snake oil salesman.
He's got this like artificially tan skin and like a pointy goatee. And, and,
and, and, and, and so I think you're totally right as was, gets on this guy,
this, this up guy who is, who is getting people's hope up, right.
It's not right, because it's also,
he gets to the people and they could have SEACT sought out real.
They treatment could be cured and live and people.
Die. People die because they go there. And the people that were there,
this was the crazy thing. And this is, this, again,
gets back to how the ultra processed information is happening.
These were not ed it's, man. These were people who, I mean,
I don't know what it's like, um, because I've never had, I've never had,
you know, knock on wood. Um, I've never had, you know, I've never had cancer.
A person very close to me has never had cancer. Like these are people who,
you know, when that happens, um, you're looking for anyone.
You're looking for anyone to tell you a story that gives you a sense that things
are actually not chaotic, right? The things are simple.
That there's an answer that there's a community that, that, that can help you.
Um, and so, and so they go, right, and he, and he taps,
he taps into that and he gives them what they want. Right. In a sense,
he gives them what they want, which is,
which is a feeling of certainty and belonging and hope.
And he's terrible, terrible human. But, but, but it ends up,
it ends up being really bad for these people.
And it ends up being bad for, you know, society in certain ways. And that,
and so I struggle. Right. And the problem is if you attack that guy,
I don't know if you've run into this at all. But if you attack the charlatans,
they've been turned into saints by the people that look up to them.
So when you attack them,
you also end up attacking all of the people.
Believe him. That belief. Yeah. I've been there before with chiropractors. Yeah.
Wait, so say a little more, well,
I don't know if you know the history of chiropractic.
I just wondered. I have to figure out where you come down on this.
Before. I, I think it's nonsense. Yeah. Okay. So a hundred percent nonsense.
It's this ready, right? Yeah. Me cracking my fingers. That's what they're doing.
Your back. It's not fixing anything.
Chiropractic medicine was created by guy who was a magnetic healer who
came about it through a seance,
the idea that he was gonna manipulate people's spines and cure them of
tuberculosis and blindness.
He was murdered by his son who drove over him with a car and then took over the
practice. And somehow, or another,
this has been grandfathered in like what I told us,
a friend of mine the other day was talking to me about chiropractors. I go,
do you know how much time a chiropractor spends a medical school? They go,
how much I go, zero, zero time.
They're doctor of chiropractic medicine. But they're not a.
There's people flipping out right now though,
who have been to their chiropractor, who feel like they've gotten relief.
We respect their craft. Yeah. Yeah. Well, there's.
Some relief in someone manipulating your body folks.
You should get a deep tissue massage and you should get an MRI and find out
what's really wrong. I came through this because I used to go to a doctor,
a chiropractor, excuse me.
And I had a bulging disc and it was me up for a long time.
It was really bothering me. And this, this chiropractor was assuring me.
It definitely was not a bulging disc. And there's probably a muscle tear.
And we're going to fix it by manipulating this. I'm going to change your,
that and crack and see, oh, I got it there. Let me adjust this boom in your hip,
this, it was all horseshit,
but he was a Saint compared to another one that I went to.
I'll tell you a story about a guy who was ripping people off.
This guy was really ripping people off.
He was doing this thing that he called zone healing, and you ready for this?
He would, I'm not bullshitting. He would touch your head. And he would,
he would press your head here and press your head here, press your head here.
And then press it really hard here. And he goes, oh, you feel that? And I go,
yeah. And I'd be like, yeah, that's, that's a [inaudible] is off.
And then somebody, no, you squeeze hard on my head. I'm not stupid.
And then he would adjust you and tell you that this is going to fix, you know,
whatever auto-immune disease, you have whatever this.
And so I was going to him because all these other jiu-jitsu people were going to
them and they were all telling me, oh, this guy's great at cracking backs.
And he's, he's amazing. He fixed my neck. He fixed my desk.
Cause people want someone to fix their thing, right?
If you have a neck injury and you just spend time off and it gets better and you
get some treatment from a chiropractor, well, heal things heal.
Your body knows how to heal. And he goes, oh, he fixed my neck. No,
your neck healed. Okay. Things do heal.
But this person touching your back saying,
he's fixing your gallbladder is a scam artists. Right?
So I had this guy and I've talking to him. And so I said, well,
how does this work? And he's explaining to me, he's got a chart.
This is zone is how we're fixing this and that, that, and this. And I said,
but all you're doing is pushing down on my back.
How are you fixing all these things?
And so he tries to give me the shenanigans and a little song and dance. Hey,
Hey. And I keep going. And I say, how are you fixing this?
You tell me what is going on here. And so it goes down to the placebo method.
He literally tells me, oh, he said, if you believe,
if you believe in these things, I go.
So you're telling me I have to be so dumb to think that if you push on my back,
it's going to fix my liver. And then it will fix my liver. Well, he goes, well,
you do know the placebo method does work. I go,
so you're taking money from people to lie to them.
So we have this tense conversation in his office
and I'm looking at him and I know this guy has got a nice house and who's got a
nice car and he's just stealing money from people.
But giving them these false hopes, it's, it's creepy, man.
And it's really creepy when you're alone with the guy and you're talking to him
about it and you get them to say, it's the placebo method. And meanwhile,
other than that nice guy, which is even more up,
like I knew him. Like he seemed like a nice guy. I didn't, I didn't know.
I didn't even know chiropractor stuff was.
The history of it. I mean, like you said, right, if you look into it,
it's sort of hard to believe that people like it's still a thing. I mean,
it's an insurance covers it and it's, and it, you know,
and this goes back to the religion stuff too. I mean, I got all,
I got into all of this stuff. So I like my,
my actual area of academic expertise is classical Chinese philosophy. So like,
that's what I, that's what I did as an actor do, did do, uh, as an academic.
And I, you know, I read all these ancient Taoists texts and stuff like that.
And there's all these promises in there about, you know, if you take my,
you know,
mercury mixed at night with this and you eat in this way and I'm looking at this
stuff, I was like, you know, this seems very familiar, right?
There's a lot of that going on today.
And then you look at the history of chiropracty and it's there.
These vital forces, right. Homeopathy is a similar thing.
There's vital forces that are actually what's causing illness.
And if you look at the history of that, it's quasi religious Reiki,
which is like the.
Oh my God energy healing. Right. And it's like, they didn't even touch you.
Right. Right.
And it's these words, I mean, it's really interesting. These words,
energy is one of these words that can easily slide from explicitly
religious to seemingly secular, right? It's like, oh yeah, energy.
That's in physics. They have energy. Right. But it's like, no,
this is the thing they're not manipulating your energy.
There's not something scientific happening here. This is a,
this is a religious ritual,
a healing ritual disguised as some kind of science.
Right. And, and, and yet, as you know,
and this is what I discovered with my first book,
I used to joke with people like I got out of religion,
cause I didn't want to talk about touchy stuff.
And then I started talking about food and medicine.
And that was when people really got. Like when you,
when you start to talk about what they eat.
So you got out of religion just because he didn't want these uncomfortable
conversations.
I'm not even joking. It's not, I actually got, I got, I,
I stopped doing religion, like,
or not stopped doing cause I still do scholarship stuff. Um,
but I wanted to talk about it in a way that was relevant to modern society.
So I didn't just want to do classical Chinese thought.
I wanted to look at how the stuff I learned about how religion works or about
the history of religion and apply it to, you know,
how are people choosing the foods they eat?
How are people choosing the medicines? Like with Chinese medicine, right.
People would say crazy stuff. To me, they'd say things like, you know,
acupuncture is natural, right. Or whatever. And that's,
and that's part of why it works. I'm like acupuncture, they got stainless steel,
Fila form needles.
You think those were when the yellow emperor was writing his classic? Like,
no they don't. And when people talk about Chinese medicine,
they don't talk about, you know, exorcism, exorcisms,
not thinking was very popular back in the day,
but that's not something people embrace.
And so I saw these weird uncritical embraces of dietary
regimens and healing rituals.
That to me were just obviously right out of, you know,
ancient China or you know, any ancient context, um,
where people would never believe them. And yet today, you know,
you're going in and you're having your, your back cracked.
It's so weird that it's so prevalent, but push back on it and oh.
I've experienced it. I've experienced it now. Oh no,
that was going to happen a hundred percent. Well,
I don't read social media luckily. So I'm not going to hear from it. But,
and let me do say this.
There's a bunch of people that are chiropractors that do use some valid methods
for rehabilitation, right? There's a lot of them that use deep tissue massage,
cold laser therapy, actual real methods.
A lot of them use a Rolfing.
There's a lot of them that use a bunch of different methods of stretching that
are very beneficial,
but the practice of cracking backs to cure disease is nonsense. Right. Right.
And that's a problem. And the practice of calling yourself a doctor,
the of that is also nonsense.
It really is. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely. Uh it's but at the same time again,
and I don't know you, I keep saying, you know this, but like it's, it's, it,
it must be difficult when, when people are in pain, right.
Or when people, when people are in pain, when you're in pain,
either psychic pain or physical pain,
you really need someone to tell you, they have an answer for you.
And to explain it and fit it into a system, they can say to you,
I know why you're sad. I know why you feel empty.
I know why your back hurts.
It's because of this simple thing and I have the answer
I'm going to fix it. I'm going to fix it.
And actually just hearing that itself is therapeutic.
Really is.
And that's the problem with going to a healer because there's
many people that have gone to people that have claimed to be a healer.
And just this process of embracing this new,
new situation, this like, I am here, I'm getting healed.
Oh my God, it's happening. Oh.
And you're a lot of what makes people ill is anxiety
is stress. And the placebo effect of having some sort of a,
in your mind perceived solution does have tangible physical benefits
for some strange reason, which is really weird. Like what,
what goes on in the human mind.